docs/cli/eval.mdx, before:

---
title: "bench eval"
description: "Run benchmark evaluations on language models"
---

## Overview

The `bench eval` command is the core of openbench, allowing you to evaluate any supported model on any available benchmark.

## Usage

```bash
bench eval <benchmark> [options]
```

## Arguments

| Argument | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `benchmark` | Name of the benchmark to run | Yes |

## Basic Configuration Options

Commonly used configuration options for model selection, evaluation control, performance optimization:

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--model` | Model to evaluate
| `--limit` | Number of questions to evaluate
| `--epochs` | Number of evaluation rounds
| `--temperature` | Sampling temperature
| `--top-p` | Nucleus sampling
| `--seed` | Random seed for reproducibility
| `--message-limit` | Max messages per sample
| `--max-tokens` | Maximum response tokens
| `--max-connections` | Concurrent API calls
| `--max-subprocesses` | Parallel subprocesses
| `--fail-on-error` | Failure threshold for sample errors
| `--timeout` | Request timeout (seconds)
| `--sandbox` | Container for running generated code

For full collection of eval congifuration parameters, see [Configuration](/configuration).

## Example Configured Evaluation

### Basic Evaluation

```bash
bench eval humaneval \
  --model openai/gpt-4o \
  --temperature 0.5 \
  --max-tokens 512 \
  --epochs 5 \
  --max-connections 5 \
  --timeout 120 \
  --sandbox docker
```

Commit message:

feat: add --max-tasks option for concurrent task execution in eval command (#279)

docs/cli/eval.mdx, after:

---
title: "bench eval"
description: "Run benchmark evaluations on language models"
---

## Overview

The `bench eval` command is the core of openbench, allowing you to evaluate any supported model on any available benchmark.

## Usage

```bash
bench eval <benchmark> [options]
```

## Arguments

| Argument | Description | Required |
|----------|-------------|----------|
| `benchmark` | Name of the benchmark to run | Yes |

## Basic Configuration Options

Commonly used configuration options for model selection, evaluation control, performance optimization:

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--model` | Model to evaluate
| `--limit` | Number of questions to evaluate
| `--epochs` | Number of evaluation rounds
| `--temperature` | Sampling temperature
| `--top-p` | Nucleus sampling
| `--seed` | Random seed for reproducibility
| `--message-limit` | Max messages per sample
| `--max-tokens` | Maximum response tokens
| `--max-connections` | Concurrent API calls
| `--max-subprocesses` | Parallel subprocesses
| `--max-tasks` | Maximum number of tasks to run concurrently
| `--fail-on-error` | Failure threshold for sample errors
| `--timeout` | Request timeout (seconds)
| `--sandbox` | Container for running generated code

For full collection of eval congifuration parameters, see [Configuration](/configuration).

## Example Configured Evaluation

### Basic Evaluation

```bash
bench eval humaneval \
  --model openai/gpt-4o \
  --temperature 0.5 \
  --max-tokens 512 \
  --epochs 5 \
  --max-connections 5 \
  --timeout 120 \
  --sandbox docker
```
