docs/cli/list.mdx, before:

---
title: "bench list"
description: "List all available benchmarks and their descriptions"
---

## Overview

The `bench list` command displays all available benchmarks in openbench, organized by category with brief descriptions.

## Usage

```bash
bench list [options]
```

## Options

| Option | Short | Description |
|--------|-------|-------------|
| `--category` | `-c` | Filter by category: core, math, etc. |
| `--search` | `-s` | Search evaluations by name, description, or tags |
| `--tags` | `-t` | Show tags for each benchmark|
| `--alpha` |  | Include experimental/alpha benchmarks|

## Example Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
bench list
```

``` x bench list example output
Core Benchmarks (58)                                                                                 
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 boolq               BoolQ                 BoolQ: A Question Answering Dataset for Boolean Reasoning    
 browsecomp          BrowseComp            A Simple Yet Challenging Benchmark for Browsing Agents ... 
 drop                DROP                  Reading comprehension benchmark requiring discrete reason... 
 ...                                                                                              
Cybersecurity Benchmarks (4)
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 cti_bench_ate       CTI-Bench ATE         Extracting MITRE ATT&CK techniques from malware and threa... 
 cti_bench_mcq       CTI-Bench MCQ         Multiple-choice questions evaluating understanding of CTI... 
 ...
 Math Benchmarks (12)
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 aime_2023_I         AIME 2023 I           American Invitational Mathematics Examination 2023 (First)   
 aime_2023_II        AIME 2023 II          American Invitational Mathematics Examination 2023 (Second)  
 aime_2024           AIME 2024             American Invitational Mathematics Examination 2024 (Combi... 
 ...
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total: 75 benchmarks (use --alpha to see experimental benchmarks)
```

### Filter by Category

```bash
# Use full flag name
bench list --category cybersecurity

# Or abbreviated
bench list -c cybersecurity
```

``` x bench list -c example output
Cybersecurity Benchmarks (4)
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 cti_bench_ate       CTI-Bench ATE         Extracting MITRE ATT&CK techniques from malware and threa... 
 cti_bench_mcq       CTI-Bench MCQ         Multiple-choice questions evaluating understanding of CTI... 
 cti_bench_rcm       CTI-Bench RCM         Mapping CVE descriptions to CWE categories to evaluate vu... 
 cti_bench_vsp       CTI-Bench VSP         Calculating CVSS scores from vulnerability descriptions t... 

────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total: 5 benchmarks (use --alpha to see experimental benchmarks)
```

Commit message:

refactor: extract cybersecurity benchmarks to plugin (#251)

docs/cli/list.mdx, after:

---
title: "bench list"
description: "List all available benchmarks and their descriptions"
---

## Overview

The `bench list` command displays all available benchmarks in openbench, organized by category with brief descriptions.

> Cybersecurity benchmarks are loaded from the optional `openbench-cyber` plugin. Install it with `uv pip install "openbench[cyber]"` if you do not see the `cybersecurity` category in your listing.

## Usage

```bash
bench list [options]
```

## Options

| Option | Short | Description |
|--------|-------|-------------|
| `--category` | `-c` | Filter by category: core, math, etc. |
| `--search` | `-s` | Search evaluations by name, description, or tags |
| `--tags` | `-t` | Show tags for each benchmark|
| `--alpha` |  | Include experimental/alpha benchmarks|

## Example Usage

### Basic Usage

```bash
bench list
```

``` x bench list example output
Core Benchmarks (58)                                                                                 
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 boolq               BoolQ                 BoolQ: A Question Answering Dataset for Boolean Reasoning    
 browsecomp          BrowseComp            A Simple Yet Challenging Benchmark for Browsing Agents ... 
 drop                DROP                  Reading comprehension benchmark requiring discrete reason... 
 ...                                                                                              
Cybersecurity Benchmarks (4)
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 cti_bench_ate       CTI-Bench ATE         Extracting MITRE ATT&CK techniques from malware and threa... 
 cti_bench_mcq       CTI-Bench MCQ         Multiple-choice questions evaluating understanding of CTI... 
 ...
 Math Benchmarks (12)
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 aime_2023_I         AIME 2023 I           American Invitational Mathematics Examination 2023 (First)   
 aime_2023_II        AIME 2023 II          American Invitational Mathematics Examination 2023 (Second)  
 aime_2024           AIME 2024             American Invitational Mathematics Examination 2024 (Combi... 
 ...
 ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total: 75 benchmarks (use --alpha to see experimental benchmarks)
```

### Filter by Category

```bash
# Use full flag name
bench list --category cybersecurity

# Or abbreviated
bench list -c cybersecurity
```

``` x bench list -c example output
Cybersecurity Benchmarks (4)
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
 cti_bench_ate       CTI-Bench ATE         Extracting MITRE ATT&CK techniques from malware and threa... 
 cti_bench_mcq       CTI-Bench MCQ         Multiple-choice questions evaluating understanding of CTI... 
 cti_bench_rcm       CTI-Bench RCM         Mapping CVE descriptions to CWE categories to evaluate vu... 
 cti_bench_vsp       CTI-Bench VSP         Calculating CVSS scores from vulnerability descriptions t... 

────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
Total: 5 benchmarks (use --alpha to see experimental benchmarks)
```
