docs/configuration.mdx, before:

---
title: "Configuration"
description: "Set openbench model and evaluation behavior"
---

## Configuration Methods

openbench can be configured through multiple methods, in order of precedence:

1. **Command-Line Arguments**

```bash
# Run eval with --config CLI flags
bench mmlu --max_tokens=10000 --temperature=0.5
```

See what else you can do with the [openbench CLI.](/cli/overview)  
  
2. **Environment Variables**

```bash
# Set configuration defaults
export BENCH_MAX_TOKENS=10000
export BENCH_TEMPERATURE=0.5
```

3. **Configuration Files** (`.env` files)

```bash .env
# Write default values to config file
BENCH_MAX_TOKENS=10000
BENCH_TEMPERATURE=0.5
```

```bash
# Automatically loaded if in current directory
bench eval mmlu

# Or source manually
source .env
bench eval mmlu
```

If not defined through any of the above methods, parameters resort to **default values**.

## Configuration Parameters

### Model Configuration

| CLI Command        | Environment Variable   | Description                     |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `--model`          | `BENCH_MODEL`          | Model(s) to evaluate.           |
| `--model-base-url` | `BENCH_MODEL_BASE_URL` | Base URL for model(s).          |
| `--model-role`     | `BENCH_MODEL_ROLE`     | Map role(s) to specific models. |

Use `--reasoning-effort` for reasoning models  
(e.g. `bench eval simpleqa --model openai/o3-2025-04-16 --reasoning-effort high`)

Use `-M` for other provider/model-specific arguments  
(e.g. OpenRouter routing: `-M only=groq`)

### Task Configuration

| CLI Command            | Environment Variable  | Description                                             |
| ---------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--epochs`             | `BENCH_EPOCHS`        | Number of epochs to run each evaluation.                |
| `--limit`              | `BENCH_LIMIT`         | Limit evaluated samples (single number or range).       |
| `--message-limit`      | `BENCH_MESSAGE_LIMIT` | Maximum number of messages per sample.                  |
| `--score / --no-score` | `BENCH_SCORE`         | Grade the benchmark, or skip scoring (can score later). |

Use `-T` Flag for Other Task-Specific Arguments  
(e.g. `bench eval graphwalks --model ollama/llama3.1:70b -T task=parents`)

### Generation Settings

| CLI Command     | Environment Variable | Description                               |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `--temperature` | `BENCH_TEMPERATURE`  | Model sampling temperature.               |
| `--top-p`       | `BENCH_TOP_P`        | Nucleus sampling.                         |
| `--max-tokens`  | `BENCH_MAX_TOKENS`   | Maximum tokens for model response.        |
| `--seed`        | `BENCH_SEED`         | Random seed for deterministic generation. |

### Performance & Concurrency

| CLI Command          | Environment Variable     | Description                                                |
| -------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--max-connections`  | `BENCH_MAX_CONNECTIONS`  | Maximum number of parallel requests.                       |
| `--max-subprocesses` | `BENCH_MAX_SUBPROCESSES` | Maximum number of parallel subprocesses.                   |
| `--timeout`          | `BENCH_TIMEOUT`          | Timeout per model API request (seconds).                   |
| `--max-retries`      | `BENCH_MAX_RETRIES`      | Maximum number of retries for API requests.                |
| `--retry-on-error`   | `BENCH_RETRY_ON_ERROR`   | Retry samples on errors (set number of retries).           |
| `--fail-on-error`    | `BENCH_FAIL_ON_ERROR`    | Failure threshold for sample errors (percentage or count). |
| `--no-fail-on-error` | `BENCH_NO_FAIL_ON_ERROR` | Do not fail evaluation if errors occur.                    |

### Logging & Output

| CLI Flag                           | Environment Variable | Description                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `--logfile`                        | `BENCH_OUTPUT`       | Output file for results.                          |
| `--log-format`                     | `BENCH_LOG_FORMAT`   | Output logging format (`eval` / `json`).          |
| `--display`                        | `BENCH_DISPLAY`      | Display type for evaluation progress.             |
| `--log-samples / --no-log-samples` | `BENCH_LOG_SAMPLES`  | Include or exclude detailed samples in logs.      |
| `--log-images / --no-log-images`   | `BENCH_LOG_IMAGES`   | Include or exclude base64 encoded images in logs. |
| `--log-buffer`                     | `BENCH_LOG_BUFFER`   | Number of samples to buffer before writing logs.  |
| `--log-dir`                        | `BENCH_LOG_DIR`      | Directory for log files.                          |

### Sandbox & Execution

| CLI Flag                                   | Environment Variable    | Description                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--sandbox`                                | `BENCH_SANDBOX`         | Environment to run evaluation (`local` or `docker`).        |
| `--sandbox-cleanup / --no-sandbox-cleanup` | `BENCH_SANDBOX_CLEANUP` | Cleanup sandbox environments after tasks (or skip cleanup). |

### Hub Integration

| CLI Flag        | Environment Variable | Description                       |
| --------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `--hub-repo`    | `BENCH_HUB_REPO`     | Target Hub dataset repo for logs. |
| `--hub-private` | `BENCH_HUB_PRIVATE`  | Push Hub dataset as private.      |

### Debugging & Inspection

| CLI Flag         | Environment Variable | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `--debug`        | `BENCH_DEBUG`        | Enable debug mode with full stack traces.    |
| `--debug-errors` | `BENCH_DEBUG_ERRORS` | Enable debug mode for errors only.           |
| `--trace`        | `BENCH_TRACE`        | Trace message interactions with model.       |
| `--alpha`        | `BENCH_ALPHA`        | Allow running experimental/alpha benchmarks. |

## Configuration Examples

### Simple Custom Configuration

```bash
bench eval humaneval \
  --model openai/gpt-4o \
  --temperature 0.5 \
  --max-tokens 512 \
  --epochs 5 \
  --sandbox docker
```

### Model Comparison

```bash
bench eval mmlu --limit 500 \
    --model groq/llama-3.3-70b \
    --model openai/gpt-4o \
    --model anthropic/claude-3-5-sonnet
```

### Multi-Model Evaluation

```bash
bench eval simpleqa \
  --model-role candidate=groq/llama-3.3-70b \
  --model-role grader=openai/gpt-4o
```

### Batch Configuration

```bash
bench eval --model openai/gpt-4.1 \
  math --limit 20 \
  mmlu --limit 20
```

### Interruption Retry Configuration

```bash
bench eval-retry logs/incomplete.json \
  --max-retries 3 \
  --retry-on-error
```

### Display Configuration

```bash
# Display modes
export BENCH_DISPLAY="rich"           # Rich terminal output (default)
export BENCH_DISPLAY="plain"          # Simple text output
export BENCH_DISPLAY="none"           # No output (logs only)
export BENCH_DISPLAY="conversation"   # Show full conversations

bench eval mmlu --display conversation
```

Commit message:

feat: add --max-tasks option for concurrent task execution in eval command (#279)

docs/configuration.mdx, after:

---
title: "Configuration"
description: "Set openbench model and evaluation behavior"
---

## Configuration Methods

openbench can be configured through multiple methods, in order of precedence:

1. **Command-Line Arguments**

```bash
# Run eval with --config CLI flags
bench mmlu --max_tokens=10000 --temperature=0.5
```

See what else you can do with the [openbench CLI.](/cli/overview)  
  
2. **Environment Variables**

```bash
# Set configuration defaults
export BENCH_MAX_TOKENS=10000
export BENCH_TEMPERATURE=0.5
```

3. **Configuration Files** (`.env` files)

```bash .env
# Write default values to config file
BENCH_MAX_TOKENS=10000
BENCH_TEMPERATURE=0.5
```

```bash
# Automatically loaded if in current directory
bench eval mmlu

# Or source manually
source .env
bench eval mmlu
```

If not defined through any of the above methods, parameters resort to **default values**.

## Configuration Parameters

### Model Configuration

| CLI Command        | Environment Variable   | Description                     |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `--model`          | `BENCH_MODEL`          | Model(s) to evaluate.           |
| `--model-base-url` | `BENCH_MODEL_BASE_URL` | Base URL for model(s).          |
| `--model-role`     | `BENCH_MODEL_ROLE`     | Map role(s) to specific models. |

Use `--reasoning-effort` for reasoning models  
(e.g. `bench eval simpleqa --model openai/o3-2025-04-16 --reasoning-effort high`)

Use `-M` for other provider/model-specific arguments  
(e.g. OpenRouter routing: `-M only=groq`)

### Task Configuration

| CLI Command            | Environment Variable  | Description                                             |
| ---------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--epochs`             | `BENCH_EPOCHS`        | Number of epochs to run each evaluation.                |
| `--limit`              | `BENCH_LIMIT`         | Limit evaluated samples (single number or range).       |
| `--message-limit`      | `BENCH_MESSAGE_LIMIT` | Maximum number of messages per sample.                  |
| `--score / --no-score` | `BENCH_SCORE`         | Grade the benchmark, or skip scoring (can score later). |

Use `-T` Flag for Other Task-Specific Arguments  
(e.g. `bench eval graphwalks --model ollama/llama3.1:70b -T task=parents`)

### Generation Settings

| CLI Command     | Environment Variable | Description                               |
| --------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `--temperature` | `BENCH_TEMPERATURE`  | Model sampling temperature.               |
| `--top-p`       | `BENCH_TOP_P`        | Nucleus sampling.                         |
| `--max-tokens`  | `BENCH_MAX_TOKENS`   | Maximum tokens for model response.        |
| `--seed`        | `BENCH_SEED`         | Random seed for deterministic generation. |

### Performance & Concurrency

| CLI Command          | Environment Variable     | Description                                                |
| -------------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--max-connections`  | `BENCH_MAX_CONNECTIONS`  | Maximum number of parallel requests.                       |
| `--max-subprocesses` | `BENCH_MAX_SUBPROCESSES` | Maximum number of parallel subprocesses.                   |
| `--max-tasks`        | `BENCH_MAX_TASKS`        | Maximum number of tasks to run concurrently.               |
| `--timeout`          | `BENCH_TIMEOUT`          | Timeout per model API request (seconds).                   |
| `--max-retries`      | `BENCH_MAX_RETRIES`      | Maximum number of retries for API requests.                |
| `--retry-on-error`   | `BENCH_RETRY_ON_ERROR`   | Retry samples on errors (set number of retries).           |
| `--fail-on-error`    | `BENCH_FAIL_ON_ERROR`    | Failure threshold for sample errors (percentage or count). |
| `--no-fail-on-error` | `BENCH_NO_FAIL_ON_ERROR` | Do not fail evaluation if errors occur.                    |

### Logging & Output

| CLI Flag                           | Environment Variable | Description                                       |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| `--logfile`                        | `BENCH_OUTPUT`       | Output file for results.                          |
| `--log-format`                     | `BENCH_LOG_FORMAT`   | Output logging format (`eval` / `json`).          |
| `--display`                        | `BENCH_DISPLAY`      | Display type for evaluation progress.             |
| `--log-samples / --no-log-samples` | `BENCH_LOG_SAMPLES`  | Include or exclude detailed samples in logs.      |
| `--log-images / --no-log-images`   | `BENCH_LOG_IMAGES`   | Include or exclude base64 encoded images in logs. |
| `--log-buffer`                     | `BENCH_LOG_BUFFER`   | Number of samples to buffer before writing logs.  |
| `--log-dir`                        | `BENCH_LOG_DIR`      | Directory for log files.                          |

### Sandbox & Execution

| CLI Flag                                   | Environment Variable    | Description                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--sandbox`                                | `BENCH_SANDBOX`         | Environment to run evaluation (`local` or `docker`).        |
| `--sandbox-cleanup / --no-sandbox-cleanup` | `BENCH_SANDBOX_CLEANUP` | Cleanup sandbox environments after tasks (or skip cleanup). |

### Hub Integration

| CLI Flag        | Environment Variable | Description                       |
| --------------- | -------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| `--hub-repo`    | `BENCH_HUB_REPO`     | Target Hub dataset repo for logs. |
| `--hub-private` | `BENCH_HUB_PRIVATE`  | Push Hub dataset as private.      |

### Debugging & Inspection

| CLI Flag         | Environment Variable | Description                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `--debug`        | `BENCH_DEBUG`        | Enable debug mode with full stack traces.    |
| `--debug-errors` | `BENCH_DEBUG_ERRORS` | Enable debug mode for errors only.           |
| `--trace`        | `BENCH_TRACE`        | Trace message interactions with model.       |
| `--alpha`        | `BENCH_ALPHA`        | Allow running experimental/alpha benchmarks. |

## Configuration Examples

### Simple Custom Configuration

```bash
bench eval humaneval \
  --model openai/gpt-4o \
  --temperature 0.5 \
  --max-tokens 512 \
  --epochs 5 \
  --sandbox docker
```

### Model Comparison

```bash
bench eval mmlu --limit 500 \
    --model groq/llama-3.3-70b \
    --model openai/gpt-4o \
    --model anthropic/claude-3-5-sonnet
```

### Multi-Model Evaluation

```bash
bench eval simpleqa \
  --model-role candidate=groq/llama-3.3-70b \
  --model-role grader=openai/gpt-4o
```

### Batch Configuration

```bash
bench eval --model openai/gpt-4.1 \
  math --limit 20 \
  mmlu --limit 20
```

### Interruption Retry Configuration

```bash
bench eval-retry logs/incomplete.json \
  --max-retries 3 \
  --retry-on-error
```

### Display Configuration

```bash
# Display modes
export BENCH_DISPLAY="rich"           # Rich terminal output (default)
export BENCH_DISPLAY="plain"          # Simple text output
export BENCH_DISPLAY="none"           # No output (logs only)
export BENCH_DISPLAY="conversation"   # Show full conversations

bench eval mmlu --display conversation
```
